DOC-2609: Resizing images by typing into the input didn't update the … (#3582)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/7.6.1-release-notes.adoc

For information on the **Enhanced Table** plugin, see: xref:advtable.adoc[Enhanced Tables].

=== Image Optimizer

The {productname} {release-version} release includes an accompanying release of the **Image Optimizer** premium plugin.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
// TINY-11669
```

**Image Optimizer** includes the following fixes.

==== Resizing images by typing into the input didn't update the `style` attribute correctly.
// TINY-11669

> An issue was identified where the `style` attribute of an image was not updated correctly when its width and height were modified via user input.

Author: ```suggestion
An issue was identified where the internal custom `style` attribute of an image was not updated correctly when its width and height were modified via user input.
```

Author: FYI @lorenzo-pomili @kemister85

Reviewer: sounds good to me

This occurred because the resize function was triggered while the selection was elsewhere, due to a debounce delay between the input and the resize operation. As a result, the resize operation was performed on the current selection instead of the intended image.

> This led to other editor components that rely on the `style` attribute accidentally reading outdated values, and the resize not being applied correctly since the selection was not on the image.

Reviewer: sorry, this Jira ended having 2 different issues and probably my description was kinda confusing.

the first problem (the one that interfere with the the other editor component) was that updating the width and height via input we didn't update correctly the `data-mce-style` so some other element, like some plugin, took a non updated value

the second one was about the timeout.

in the Jira documentation the 2 cases are indicated in each section via numbers `1` or `2` when you read `1. [something]` that something is referring to the first case and if there is a `2` is referred to the second case.

If you want we can have a call tomorrow morning, I didn't manage this Jira well and there is a little bit of confusion in that documentation :/

Author: @lorenzo-pomili Yeah sure

> This led to other editor components that rely on the `style` attribute accidentally reading outdated values, and the resize not being applied correctly since the selection was not on the image.

Author: ```suggestion
This led to other editor components that rely on that custom `style` attribute accidentally reading outdated values, and the resize not being applied correctly since the selection was not on the image.
```

> {productname} {release-version} resolves this issue by updating the `style` attribute appropriately whenever a resize operation is performed. The resize function now takes in the intended image as a parameter, ensuring that all editor components referencing the `style` attribute read the most recent value entered. Additionally, the resize operation is applied to the correct image, even before the debounce time elapses.

Author: ```suggestion
{productname} {release-version} resolves this issue by updating that custom `style` attribute appropriately whenever a resize operation is performed. The resize function now takes in the intended image as a parameter, ensuring that all editor components referencing that custom `style` attribute read the most recent value entered. Additionally, the resize operation is applied to the correct image, even before the debounce time elapses.
```

> An issue was identified where the internal custom `style` attribute of an image was not updated correctly when its width and height were modified via user input.
> 
> This occurred because the resize function was triggered while the selection was elsewhere, due to a debounce delay between the input and the resize operation. As a result, the resize operation was performed on the current selection instead of the intended image.
> 
> This led to other editor components that rely on that custom `style` attribute accidentally reading outdated values, and the resize not being applied correctly since the selection was not on the image.
> 
> {productname} {release-version} resolves this issue by updating that custom `style` attribute appropriately whenever a resize operation is performed. The resize function now takes in the intended image as a parameter, ensuring that all editor components referencing that custom `style` attribute read the most recent value entered. Additionally, the resize operation is applied to the correct image, even before the debounce time elapses.

Reviewer 2: Suggested copy edits.

```suggestion
An issue was identified where an internal custom `style` attribute of an image was not updated correctly after a user modified its width and height.

This issue occurred because the resize function was triggered while the selection focus was elsewhere, due to a debounce delay between the input and the resize operation. As a result, the resize operation was performed on the current selection instead of the intended image.

This led to other editor components that rely on that custom `style` attribute to accidentally read outdated values, resulting in the resize not being applied correctly since the selection was not on the intended image.

{productname} {release-version} addresses this issue, by updating the custom `style` attribute appropriately whenever a resize operation is performed. The resize function now takes in the intended image as a parameter, ensuring that all editor components referencing that custom `style` attribute read the most recent value entered. Additionally, the resize operation is applied to the correct image, even before the debounce time elapses.
```
